README.md, before:

# EVM Indexer

> Minimalistic EVM-compatible blockchain indexer written in rust.

This repository contains a program to index helpful information from any EVM-compatible chain into a PostgreSQL database.

It is ready for developing purposes. If you want more information about it, you can [send me a DM on Twitter](https://twitter.com/eaberrueta)

## Demo

To see the EVM indexer in action, go to [https://evm-indexer.kindynos.mx](https://evm-indexer.kindynos.mx)

The frontend app repository can be found here [https://github.com/eabz/evm-indexer-app](https://github.com/eabz/evm-indexer-app)

## Chains

Currently, the indexer can index the following chains:

- Ethereum (mainnet)
- Polygon
- Avalanche
- Fantom
- Gnosis Chain
- Optimism
- BNB Chain

## Database Information

The indexer creates tables for:

1. Blocks
2. Transactions
3. Transaction Receipts
4. Transaction Logs
5. Contract Creations
6. Contract Interactions
7. Token Transfers
8. Tokens Details

The information structure is explained in the [database structure document](./doc/DATABASE.md).

## Providers

The indexer connects automatically to four different providers through the RPC.

The available providers are:

- [LlamaNodes](https://llamanodes.com)
- [Ankr](https://www.ankr.com/rpc)
- [Pokt](https://www.pokt.network/)
- [Blast](https://blastapi.io)

The indexer automatically selects the providers added.

During our first indexings we realized that all providers sometimes deliver the information incomplete. To do so, the indexer stores all the incomplete transactions into a separate table and refetchs the using a fallback provider.

We tried a lot of public and paid RPC providers, for some reason, the only provider that delivers complete information is [QuickNode](https://www.quicknode.com/).

To enable this service you need to add the quicknode RPC (or a local node will also work) as a `FALLBACK_PROVIDER` in the `env` variables.

To sync from a local node, configure the variables using your local node.

## Environment Variables

The indexer requires the following environment variables.

| Variable                 | Purpose                              | Required Local | Required Docker |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------ | -------------- | --------------- |
| `DATABASE_URL`           | Url of the PostgreSQL database       | `true`         | `false `        |
| `DATABASE_URL`           | Password for the PostgreSQL database | `false`        | `true `         |
| `ANKR_PROVIDER_ID`       | Ankr RPC nodes provider ID           | `false `       | `false `        |
| `LLAMANODES_PROVIDER_ID` | LlamaNodes RPC nodes provider ID     | `false `       | `false `        |
| `POKT_PROVIDER_ID`       | Pokt RPC provider ID                 | `false `       | `false `        |
| `HASURA_ADMIN_PASSWORD`  | Hasura console and GraphQL API token | `false `       | `true `         |

To add the fallback providers (QuickNode or local nodes) to refetch failed transaction receipts.

| Variable                |
| ----------------------- |
| `ETH_FALLBACK_RPC`      |
| `BSC_FALLBACK_RPC`      |
| `GNOSIS_FALLBACK_RPC`   |
| `AVAX_FALLBACK_RPC`     |
| `FTM_FALLBACK_RPC`      |
| `POLYGON_FALLBACK_RPC`  |
| `OPTIMISM_FALLBACK_RPC` |

If the provider is not specified, the refetcher won't start and the indexer will work normally without refetching the transaction receipts.

If you want to download from a local node (node inside the same private network or the same computer) use the following variables.
If this is set, the program will ignore all other providers and use the local node only to sync.

| Variable                  |
| ------------------------- |
| `ETH_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`      |
| `ETH_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`       |
| `BSC_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`      |
| `BSC_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`       |
| `GNOSIS_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`   |
| `GNOSIS_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`    |
| `AVAX_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`     |
| `AVAX_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`      |
| `FTM_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`      |
| `FTM_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`       |
| `POLYGON_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`  |
| `POLYGON_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`   |
| `OPTIMISM_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC` |
| `OPTIMISM_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`  |

## Install

You can try the indexer locally or through Docker.

### Local

To use the program locally, make sure you have [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) installed in your environment.

1. Clone the repository

```
git clone https://github.com/eabz/evm-indexer && cd evm-indexer
```

2. Build the program

```
cargo build --release
```

3. Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env` and add your environment variables.

4. Run the program

```
./target/release/evm-indexer
```

### Docker

You can use the official docker image.

```
docker pull ghcr.io/eabz/evm-indexer:latest
```

You can use our docker-compose script to start a full indexer with a database, all chains enabled, and a Hasura Cloud GraphQL API.

```
docker-compose up
```

Note: When using the docker-compose the database is exposed on the port `8000` of the host.

## Contribute

We appreciate your contributions. PR are accepted and open.

Some ideas for contributions are:

1. Add more chains
2. Increment providers to sync simultaneously.
3. Speed up the information deserialization/storing.

Commit message:

Fix docker image with instructions

README.md, after:

# EVM Indexer

> Minimalistic EVM-compatible blockchain indexer written in rust.

This repository contains a program to index helpful information from any EVM-compatible chain into a PostgreSQL database.

It is ready for developing purposes. If you want more information about it, you can [send me a DM on Twitter](https://twitter.com/eaberrueta)

## Demo

To see the EVM indexer in action, go to [https://evm-indexer.kindynos.mx](https://evm-indexer.kindynos.mx)

The frontend app repository can be found here [https://github.com/eabz/evm-indexer-app](https://github.com/eabz/evm-indexer-app)

## Chains

Currently, the indexer can index the following chains:

- Ethereum (mainnet)
- Polygon
- Avalanche
- Fantom
- Gnosis Chain
- Optimism
- BNB Chain

## Database Information

The indexer creates tables for:

1. Blocks
2. Transactions
3. Transaction Receipts
4. Transaction Logs
5. Contract Creations
6. Contract Interactions
7. Token Transfers
8. Tokens Details

The information structure is explained in the [database structure document](./doc/DATABASE.md).

## Providers

The indexer connects automatically to four different providers through the RPC.

The available providers are:

- [LlamaNodes](https://llamanodes.com)
- [Ankr](https://www.ankr.com/rpc)
- [Pokt](https://www.pokt.network/)
- [Blast](https://blastapi.io)

The indexer automatically selects the providers added.

During our first indexings we realized that all providers sometimes deliver the information incomplete. To do so, the indexer stores all the incomplete transactions into a separate table and refetchs the using a fallback provider.

We tried a lot of public and paid RPC providers, for some reason, the only provider that delivers complete information is [QuickNode](https://www.quicknode.com/).

To enable this service you need to add the quicknode RPC (or a local node will also work) as a `FALLBACK_PROVIDER` in the `env` variables.

To sync from a local node, configure the variables using your local node.

## Environment Variables

The indexer requires the following environment variables.

| Variable                 | Purpose                              | Required Local | Required Docker |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------ | -------------- | --------------- |
| `DATABASE_URL`           | Url of the PostgreSQL database       | `true`         | `false `        |
| `DATABASE_URL`           | Password for the PostgreSQL database | `false`        | `true `         |
| `ANKR_PROVIDER_ID`       | Ankr RPC nodes provider ID           | `false `       | `false `        |
| `LLAMANODES_PROVIDER_ID` | LlamaNodes RPC nodes provider ID     | `false `       | `false `        |
| `POKT_PROVIDER_ID`       | Pokt RPC provider ID                 | `false `       | `false `        |
| `HASURA_ADMIN_PASSWORD`  | Hasura console and GraphQL API token | `false `       | `true `         |

To add the fallback providers (QuickNode or local nodes) to refetch failed transaction receipts.

| Variable                |
| ----------------------- |
| `ETH_FALLBACK_RPC`      |
| `BSC_FALLBACK_RPC`      |
| `GNOSIS_FALLBACK_RPC`   |
| `AVAX_FALLBACK_RPC`     |
| `FTM_FALLBACK_RPC`      |
| `POLYGON_FALLBACK_RPC`  |
| `OPTIMISM_FALLBACK_RPC` |

If the provider is not specified, the refetcher won't start and the indexer will work normally without refetching the transaction receipts.

If you want to download from a local node (node inside the same private network or the same computer) use the following variables.
If this is set, the program will ignore all other providers and use the local node only to sync.

| Variable                  |
| ------------------------- |
| `ETH_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`      |
| `ETH_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`       |
| `BSC_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`      |
| `BSC_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`       |
| `GNOSIS_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`   |
| `GNOSIS_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`    |
| `AVAX_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`     |
| `AVAX_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`      |
| `FTM_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`      |
| `FTM_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`       |
| `POLYGON_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC`  |
| `POLYGON_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`   |
| `OPTIMISM_LOCAL_HTTP_RPC` |
| `OPTIMISM_LOCAL_WSS_RPC`  |

## Install

You can try the indexer locally or through Docker.

### Local

To use the program locally, make sure you have [rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) installed in your environment.

1. Clone the repository

```
git clone https://github.com/eabz/evm-indexer && cd evm-indexer
```

2. Build the program

```
cargo build --release
```

3. Copy the `.env.example` file to `.env` and add your environment variables.

4. Run the program

```
./target/release/evm-indexer
```

### Docker

To use docker, you need to build the image and tag it as `indexer`

```
docker build . -t indexer
```

Now you can run the image isolated or run it within the prepared docker-compose file.

```
docker-compose up
```

Note: When using the docker-compose the database is exposed on the port `8000` of the host.

## Contribute

We appreciate your contributions. PR are accepted and open.

Some ideas for contributions are:

1. Add more chains
2. Increment providers to sync simultaneously.
3. Speed up the information deserialization/storing.
